DOCS-7813 coverted the policy (#237)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/ip-whitelist.adoc

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | IP Whitelist

> >s|Summary      | Allows access to request from a list or range of specified IP addresses

Reviewer: "Allows a list or range of specified IP addresses to request access"
OR
"Allows a list or range of specified IP addresses to request access to" <this>

Author: Done! Thanks!

>s|Category | Security
>s|First Mule version available | 3.8.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| 403 - IP is rejected
|===

> The IP Whitelist policy allows a list or range of IP addresses to access a configured API endpoint.

Reviewer: "specified" IP addresses?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The IP Whitelist policy allows access to a protected resource when a match is found between a source IP (specified when configuring the policy) and a list of individual IPs or range of IPs.

Reviewer: ditto; use the same wording in each instance repeated:
```suggestion
The IP Whitelist policy allows access to a protected resource when a match is found between a source IP (specified when configuring the policy) and a list or range of specified IPs.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Based on your business need, you can specify a DataWeave 2.0 expression for Mule runtime engine 4 (Mule)) or MEL expression for Mule 3.

Reviewer 2: This is right, but why you may need this? Please, add short reason (see blacklist policy).

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Based on your business need, you can specify a DataWeave 2.0 expression for Mule runtime engine 4 (Mule)) or MEL expression for Mule 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on your business need, you can specify a DataWeave 2.0 expression for Mule runtime engine 4 (Mule) or MEL expression for Mule 3.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[specifying_ip_address]]

> == Specifying IP Addresses to Whitelist in Your Policy 

Reviewer: BTW, I have MISLED you about topic set titles. 
I am told that we do not consider an .adoc a set of topics but rather one topic with subsections.
SO...please use imperative rather than gerund (-ing):
```suggestion
== Specify IP Addresses to Whitelist in Your Policy 
```

Reviewer: This is GLOBAL going forward. Do not worry about past published content, but please use imperative titles for all tasks (ever super-tasks) going forward. I'm sorry!

Author: Yes, done! Thanks!

> You can specify the IP addresses to approve in the policy using the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify the IP addresses to approve in the policy in the following ways:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Whitelist access based on the IP address of the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Whitelist access based on the IP address of the request.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Whitelist access based on the origin IP address that is determined by resolving a specific DataWeave or MEL expression, such as the x-Forwarded-For header or the HTTP header.

Reviewer 2: Please see blacklist policy comments about this.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Whitelist access based on the origin IP address that is determined by resolving a specific DataWeave or MEL expression, such as the x-Forwarded-For header or the HTTP header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Whitelist access based on the origin IP address that is determined by resolving a specific DataWeave or MEL expression, such as the `x-Forwarded-For` header or the `HTTP` header.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Whitelist access based on the origin IP address that is determined by resolving a specific DataWeave or MEL expression, such as the x-Forwarded-For header or the HTTP header.

Reviewer 2: Please see Blacklist conversation about HTTP header.

Author: I don't see this in the file.

> * Any other origin

Reviewer: period, because a fragment in any list that contains a sentence also takes a period
```suggestion
* Any other origin.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> === Whitelisting Access Based on the IP address of the Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Whitelist Access Based on the IP Address of the Request
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

To whitelist access based on the IP address of the request, you can:

> * Define a specific IP address by enumerating it in the white space, for example, `192.168.1.1`.

Reviewer 2: "white space" ? You mean the whitelist field, right?

Reviewer: Ditto my previous edit about "Define".
ALSO...you used "white space" earlier, and I thought nothing of it...but if it should be "the whitelist field," as Nahuel suggests, please fix that both here and earlier.

Author: changed it to the whitelist field. Not sure where white space came from. :-) Legacy stuff. Done! Thanks!

* Define a subset of addresses by identifying a subnet mask. 

> For example, `192.168.3.1/30`, which includes the consolidated range: `192.168.3.0 - 192.168.3.3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `192.168.3.1/30`, which includes the consolidated range `192.168.3.0 - 192.168.3.3`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* Define a whole range of IP addresses by stating the relevant octets of the IP address you want to permit. 
+

> For example, setting `192.168` will include IP addresses from `192.168.0.0` to `192.168.255.255`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, setting `192.168` includes IP addresses from `192.168.0.0` to `192.168.255.255`.
```
ditto re. "to" or "through"?

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Whitelisting Access Based on the Origin IP Address of the x-Forwarded-For Header

> If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load-balancer, you can blacklist the client's specific IP (the IP originating the request) instead of the address that appears in the request.

Reviewer 2: "you can blacklist" -> "you can whitelist"

Author: Good catch! Done! Thanks!

> If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load-balancer, you can blacklist the client's specific IP (the IP originating the request) instead of the address that appears in the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load balancer, you can whitelist the client's specific IP address (the IP address originating the request) instead of the address that appears in the request.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> For example, suppose you want to whitelist `192.168.2.3` and the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy is `92.40.1.255`, the client requests appear with this public address using the proxy in such a case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to whitelist `192.168.2.3` and the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy is `92.40.1.255`, the client requests appear with the public address using the proxy.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> For example, suppose you want to whitelist `192.168.2.3` and the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy is `92.40.1.255`, the client requests appear with this public address using the proxy in such a case.

Reviewer 2: For clarity sake, you may mention that `192.168.2.3` is the private IP while `92.40.1.255` is the public one.

Author: Done! Thanks!

Typically, applications use the `X-Forwarded-For` header to identify the origin IP addresses of a request that was redirected to your endpoint.

You can use a DataWeave 2.0 or MEL expression in the policy to instruct the service to look for the IP address in the `x-Forwarded-For` header. 

> When you insert the IP address in the IP expression field of the policy parameters, the API Platform is instructed to look for the originating IP address that ranks in the concatenated values of the `x-Forwarded-For` header of the request:

Reviewer 2: "for the originating IP address that ranks" ? Perhaps change ranks by the starting IP or similar?

Reviewer: Yeah...I don't understand "...the originating IP address that ranks in the concatenated values of the..." either....

Author: Done! Thanks!

> When you insert the IP address in the IP expression field of the policy parameters, the API Platform is instructed to look for the originating IP address that ranks in the concatenated values of the `x-Forwarded-For` header of the request:

Reviewer: ditto question about "API Platform"

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
[source,mel]
----
#[attributes.headers['x-forwarded-for']]
----

== Configuring Policy Parameters

When you apply the IP Whitelist policy to your API from the UI, you can configure the following parameters:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
|===
| Parameter | Description 
|IP expression  |The DataWeave 2.0 or MEL expression to be used for extracting the IP address from this API request. 

> |Blacklist |The list of IP addresses that must be granted access to the API. You may define one IP or an IP range at a time, as many times required. For more information, see <<specifying_ip_address,Specifying IP Addresses to Whitelist in Your Policy >>.

Reviewer 2: "Blacklist" -> "Whitelist"

Author: Done! Thanks!

> |Blacklist |The list of IP addresses that must be granted access to the API. You may define one IP or an IP range at a time, as many times required. For more information, see <<specifying_ip_address,Specifying IP Addresses to Whitelist in Your Policy >>.

Reviewer: ditto prev PR edit
```suggestion
|Whitelist |The list of IP addresses that must be granted access to the API. 
You can define one IP address or range at a time, as many times as required. For more information, see <<specifying_ip_address,Specifying IP Addresses to Whitelist in Your Policy >>.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
